SGAS Luts Server Change Log (from version 3.0.0 and onwords)

3.2.0:

New database backend, which adds support for PostgreSQL along with the existing
CouchDB support. The PostgreSQL backend performs automatic aggregation of the
usage records.

Better record duplicate detection and overwriting, making it possible to log
the same job from multiple places, and keep the record with the most
information (required for setups using both ARC and LRMSURGen).

Host-record consistency check during insert. Hosts can now only register
records with machine names in their own domain (matched with the X509
identity). Strictness is configurable.

Support and configuration option for running as non-root user.

Possible to specify logfile in configuration file.

There is an experimental query and view engine but it is not finalized.


3.1.0:

New _id scheme to conserve space in CouchDB, and perform faster view
generation.

Added a change log.


3.0.1:

Documentation overhaul, including a better structured installation guide, and
an explanation of the main concepts as it was a bit tricky to understand for
new people. Some additional view examples have been added as well.

Return error code 500 (server error) instead of 400 (client error) when an
error happens on insertion.

Better error messages if the underlying database is unavailable.

Some more test cases have been added.

Test for host certificate, key, and CA dir during startup and fail at startup
instead of starting up fine and reporting the error in the log (should confuse
admins a bit less in case of a misconfiguration).

More flexible view engine. Can now report complex results (i.e., multiple
values per table cell) as well as having a single column (1-dimensional
results).

Disables graph rendering of results, as it was buggy and largely useless.

View engine have had a bit of an overhaul, though no visible changes. Mainly to
prepare for more flexible view usage in the future. A view overview page is now
available and will list the custom defined views (URL: /sgas/view).

Slightly less verbose logging as the service wrote quite a bit to the log file.


3.0.0:

New, completely rewritten service.

Seperate backend database. We are now using CouchDB as backend database for
storing usage records. Using a proper database allows easier generation of
summary data.

Data insertion and retrieval now uses ordinary TLS and HTTP. This means that it
is possible to use stock tools as cURL and a Browser to use the LUTS.

Signifanatly easier installation and configuration compared to previous SGAS
versions.

View engine for creating custom views of aggregated data. This part is still a
bit rough but is is possible to create view of aggregated data. These can be
displayed directly in the browser or be fetched with an HTTP client




