=== Nagios Monitoring of SGAS ==

This document describes how to enable Nagios monitoring of SGAS, associated
services, and registration records as well.


== SGAS Service, NginX, PostgreSQL Monitoring ==

The LUTS, along with NginX and PostgreSQL constitute the three services
necessary for a running SGAS.

For monitoring of SGAS LUTS and NginX use a standard http(s) checker. The
checker should return a fault if the HTTP request is a non 200-series reply.

For NginX monitoring, use the base URL. Fx: www.example.org:6143/

For SGAS LUTS monitoring, use the SGAS service URL.
Fx: www.example.org.org:6143/sgas

For PostgreSQL, a standard PostgreSQL Nagios monitoring script should be
sufficient.

== Monitoring Registration ==

Besides monitoring the services, it can be a good idea to monitor that records
are being registered, such that a misconfiguration or problems can be detected.

SGAS provides a simple mechanism which can be used to monitor if a machine (and
possibly from a certain insert host) has made any regstrations in a certain
interval. SGAS exposes a simple HTTP interface, which will reply with the
number of seconds since the last registration for a given hostname.

To enable the monitoring interface see docs/plugins for more information.

To pull SGAS for information on registration status construct a URL for the
machine that should be checked. For a cluster with the host name
"cluster.example.org", the URL will look like this:

http://accounting.example.org:6143/sgas/monitor/cluster.example.org

Perform a GET on the URL with curl, wget, or similar. Assuming records have
been registered for the host, the response will have code 200 (OK), and have a
JSON payload, like the following:

{"registration_epoch": 43717}

The registration epoch value is the seconds since last registration. It is then
up to the client to decide if this number is big enough to issue a warning.

However a machine can have several hosts inserting records for that machine,
e.g., both ce01.titan.uio.no and ce02.titan.uio.no registers records for the
machine titan.uio.no. To monitor registrations from both host for the same
machine, append the URL with the inserter host name as a child resources:

http://accounting.example.org:6143/sgas/monitor/cluster.example.org/gw01.cluster.example.org

This URL will respond with a payload similar to a machine only request.

If there are no registrations for the specified machine name, or machine name +
inserter host combination, the response will have code 404 (NOT FOUND), and
have a string describing the error. If an error occurs in the service, a
response with code 500 (INTERNAL SERVER ERROR) is returned along with a string
describing the problem.

Monitoring works both for usage and storage records. For usage records the
machine name property is for resource name, and for storage records the storage
system property is used for resources. If a machine is registering both usage
and storage records it is not possible to distinguish between the two. The
newest registration will be used.

As with any other access to SGAS, the client needs to be permitted accessing
SGAS. For monotoring this in done in sgas.authz with the the "monitor" stanze,
e.g.:

"/O=Grid/O=NorduGrid/OU=ndgf.org/CN=ROBOT: Nagios"               monitor

SGAS provides a Nagios check script, called check_sgas-registration.sh. There
are two mandatory arguments: machine name (-H) and monitor url (-m), e.g.:

./sgas-registration-monitor.sh -H cluster.example.org -m https://sgas.example.org:8143/sgas/monitor

An inserter host can be specified with -I.

The default times for warning is 3 days, and 5 days for critical. There are
options for specifying warning and critical time (both are in seconds) and
setting CA directory and host cert and key.

