This document provides an overview of the SGAS LUTS accounting system.

For instructions on installation, see the luts-setup file.


The SGAS LUTS is a system intended for accounting infrastructure in grid and
HPC systems.



1: Terminology & Concepts


* Usage Record

An XML document adhering the OGF-98 standard. The document describes the job
and consumed resource for a job executed on a grid or cluster. Most accounting
systems use a number of extensions for the OGF standard to describe additional
information. The file UR-extensions provide an overview of the extensions used
in SGAS.

Usage Records is typically abbreviated to UR.


* LUTS service:

LUTS = Logging and Usage Tracking Service

A service to which usage records can be registered to and stored at. Aggregated
information can then be extracted from the LUTS service through views.

Typically a single LUTS would be run per-country or per-vo basis, but it can
differ. It is also possible to run a LUTS per site, however this might incur a
lot of additional adminstration time. The options can also be combined in
various ways, e.g., having a per-site LUTS and a national LUTS. Note that the
LUTS does not feature forwarding of usage records. Instead the registration
client simply registers URs to multple places. This scheme is significantly
simpler and less brittle than forwarding.

Currently NDGF runs a single LUTS to which the Nordic WLCG usage is reported
(i.e., ATLAS, ALICE, and CMS) along with a couple of other projects.
Furthermore several countries run a national LUTS where to national usage is
reported. As of writing this, there are five known instances of the LUTS
running in production.


* UR Logger:

A program/plugin generating usage records. Typically installed/deployed
alongside a grid middleware or LRMS.

While the usage record could be registered immediately it is typically written
to disk in a spool directory and then registered to one or more LUTSes by
another program, typically called UR registrant.

The ARC middleware includes a UR logger (and registrant) as of version 0.8.1.

NDGF is also running a custom UR logger for MonALISA (the information system of
the AliEn production system/grid).

NDGF is working on producing UR loggers for LRMSes. Currently Maui is underway
as the first target. Code is available at: http://github.com/htj/lrmsurgen

The three loggers all use the same registrant code (except some minor
differences). The current registrant supports registering URs to multiple
LUTSes, per-VO registration and will retry registration if the LUTS is
unavailable. This will also work with multiple LUTSes and so forth.

* BART

BART = Batch system Reporting Tool

A small tool for extracting usage data from LRMS/Batch systems, and report them
to SGAS. Currently Maui, Torque, and SLURM are supported (LoadLeveler support
is underway). Can be downloaded from the SGAS homepage (www.sgas.se)


2. LUTS Service


* Description:

The LUTS service is daemon listening on port 6180 on the localhost interface
(by default at least). The interface/protocol is HTTP, and is used for
registering URs and accessing views via the browser or extracing data via the
query interface.

In front of the service, a reverse proxy should be used to bridge the LUTS with
the outside world. The reverse proxy handles TLS/SSL negotiating, and

The LUTS service is essentially a thin wrapper over a database (the server code
is only ~3000 lines). It performs mainly authorization and data transformation.
Authorization is certificate based, using TLS/SSL.

SGAS currently support PostgreSQL as backend database.
Webpage: http://www.postgresql.org/.

PostgreSQL handles large amounts of data much better than the previously used
CouchDB, though this does not come for free.

CouchDB is no longer supported.


* Insertion

Once the LUTS has received a batch of URs, the usage records are transformed
into datastructures which are used to build statements for inserting the
records into the database. Note that an embedded function is used for inserting
the records (i.e., INSERT statements are NOT used). Information about insert
time, certificate used in authorization and from which host the usage record
was inserted is added as "provenance" information the usage records.

On the database side, the main table for data insertion is usagedata. Data in
this table is normalized. The denormalized data can be access in the
usagerecords view. After insertion, an aggregation is triggered, which will sum
up the inserted records. The aggregated data is much smaller than the raw data,
and much faster to query. The aggregated data is in the "uraggregated" relation.

Most of the fields in the database is hopefully self-explanatory. Many of the
names are taken from the Usage Record Specification (OGF-98), which can be
consulted for an in-depth explanation of the fields.


* Views

Just inserting usage records in itself is rather useless. In order to provide
high level information about the usage record data, SGAS provides access to
aggregated information in the form of views. It is also possible to access
individual usage records, but this is typically rather meaningless (as studying
a drop in an ocean).

SGAS tries to push as much data transformatiion  into PostgreSQL, as the
database is closest to the data  Often SGAS will just pass the data directly
though it, or do some basic data transformation.

Creating an SGAS view is done by defining the view type and a select statement
in the sgas.conf file. The data produced by the select statement must have a
certain structure depending on the view type chosen. See docs/views for more
details.

In the future we intend to deliver "standard" views with SGAS, for the most
common usage patterns. For now, they must be created manually.


* More Information

This documentation is a work in progress.

If you have questions or suggestions, please contact htj _at_ ndgf.org

